I purchased the domain "ricehomelab.net". Since I just acquired it i am in the process of having all of my lab infrastructure use this domain. 

I've edited my host templates at /etc/cloud/templates/hosts.debian.tmpl to reflect the correct hostname and FQDN.  
My firstline is similar to

192.16.50.### nameofservice.ricehomelab.net {{hostname}}

I also removed my static host configurations to get the servers to check in with the puppet master.

Using Pihole I updated my DNS records there to have the correct domains for the new domain name. This should prevent me from having to update the hosts file on each device i want
to be able to contact each other on the domain. I also think I can make a module in puppet to keep that updated. 

The other thing I needed to do since this whole process broke puppet was to update my DNS servers with Netplan to use my Pihole server rather than my router as the DNS. 

Once that was done the puppet.conf file needed updated for my puppetmaster and pihole. 

From here it was clearing out certs from my puppetmaster, and my node to fully determine the issue and get puppet working again. 

I did find https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/ssl_regenerate_certificates.html#concept-4386 to be a very helpful article in terms of that. 

After continued challenges in getting my original instance of puppet running. I decided to take advantage of some of the very reasons I am doing this project. 
The main benefit being that the majority of the challenges in starting over are already written out in the code.

I re-configured 2 cloud init templates I had set up to be my puppetmaster and pihole server this time using my actual domain. Once set up I was able to log in with them
Pihole was quickly configured and I learned how to manipulate the hosts table to allow traffic between my different VM's. 

Lessons learned:
1. The more that I can commit to a code base the easier it is to recover.
2. Changing domains on existing servers is time consuming.
    A. I'm actively trying to plan my infrastucture so that I don't have to worry about this again if the need arrises. 
